# AC-17 Remote Access
## AC-17 Control Requirement
The organization:

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(a)	Establishes and documents usage restrictions, configuration/connection requirements, and implementation &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;guidance for each type of remote access allowed; and

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(b) Authorizes remote access to the information system prior to allowing such connections.
### AC-17(a) Control Requirement
Describe how the organization establishes and documents usage restrictions, configuration/connection requirements, and implementation guidance for each type of remote access allowed.
### AC-17(a) Control Objective
Currently, all access to cloud systems is remote and most cloud systems implement automated mechanisms to facilitate the monitoring and control of these remote access methods. Automated monitoring of remote access sessions allows CSPs to audit user activities on a variety of information system components (i.e., servers, workstations, laptops) and to ensure compliance with CSP remote access policy. As required, the CSP uses cryptography to protect the confidentiality and integrity of remote access sessions.

The objective/intent of this section of the control is to ensure that the CSP has identified the types of remote access allowed to the cloud system at all service levels. There must be a full accounting of all types of remote access allowed. There must be a full accounting of all methods of remote access, before continuing with this security control implementation detail.

Once all methods of remote access are identified, the CSP must describe for each type of remote access allowed, the established usage restrictions; the established configuration/connection requirements; and the implementation guidance. Ideally, this information is already captured in a document devoted to remote access or the system access management methodology. If the documentation already exists, the summation can be described in the implementation detail along with the proper citations as indicated below.
### AC-17(a) Write the Control
(i)	(Verb) Identify (Noun) remote access (all methods of) to the system

This control could be answered in a tabular format or if the information is captured in a remote access document, the document can be cited as described in the section labeled, “Consistency Check.” If a document is cited as consideration for the security control implementation detail, the document must be provided with the SSP submission.

Describe how the CSP identifies the remote access methodologies to the system at all service levels.

(ii)	(Verbs) Establishes and documents (Nouns) usage restrictions, configuration/ connection requirements, and &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;implementation guidance

Once the methods are identified, describe how the organization establishes and documents (both verbs must be described) usage restrictions, configuration/ connection requirements, and implementation guidance for each of the remote access methods.

Each of the listed verbs and nouns must be identified. A suggestion is that one may think of this as per the testing criteria:

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;a.	Describe how the organization establishes usage restrictions, configuration/ connection requirements, and &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;implementation guidance for each of the remote access methods; and

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;b.	Describe how the organization documents usage restrictions, configuration/ connection requirements, and &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;implementation guidance for each of the remote access methods.
### AC-17(a) Customer Responsibilities
*IaaS* - Normally, there is no Customer Responsibility for remote access into an IaaS by the customer. System accounts are not provisioned to customers. If the remote access is sanctioned, the parameters of the Customer Responsibility must be clearly stated.

*PaaS* - System accounts are provisioned to customers based upon the subscription and based upon the platform service. Therefore, remote access MUST be defined for the parameters surrounding the Customer Responsibilities. It is important to clearly define the Customer Responsibilities as these pertain to the PaaS subscription and how remote access methods for accounts are provisioned.

*SaaS* - Depending upon the subscription, system accounts are provisioned to customers to perform basic management functions. This is remote access. The Customer Responsibility for the remote access methodologies must be fully defined for all customer accounts provisioned.
### AC-17(b) Control Requirement
Describe how the organization authorizes remote access to the information system prior to allowing such connections.
### AC-17(b) Control Objective
As stated in section (a), currently, all access to cloud systems is remote and most cloud systems implement automated mechanisms to facilitate the monitoring and control of these remote access methods. Automated monitoring of remote access sessions allows CSPs to audit user activities on a variety of information system components (i.e., servers, workstations, laptops) and to ensure compliance with CSP remote access policy. As required, the CSP uses cryptography to protect the confidentiality and integrity of remote access sessions.

The objective/intent of this section of the control is to describe how the CSP ensures that the CSP properly **authorizes** the remote access BEFORE/PRIOR to allowing the connection. 

_Common error made by CSPs in describing the security control implementation description for this control: This control AC-17(b) does not require a description of how authentication for remote access is managed. This control addresses authorization prior to allowing remote access without specifying the formats for such authorization. While organizations may use interconnection security agreements to authorize remote access connections, such agreements are not required by this control. Enforcing access restrictions for remote connections is addressed in AC-3._

Please remember that in AC-3 Access Enforcement, the CSP describes in detail access enforcement methodologies. Also, authorization is not equivalent to authentication. These terms and their definitions are frequently confused. Authentication is providing and validating identity. Authorization includes the execution rules that determine what functionality and data the privileged or non-privileged user may access, ensuring the proper allocation of access rights, i.e., access enforcement after authentication is successful.
### AC-17(b) Write the Control
(Verb) authorizes (Noun) remote access to the information system (Key Point) **_prior to_** allowing such connections

Part (a) of this security control implementation description describes how the CSP **_establishes_** and **_documents_** usage restrictions, configuration/connection requirements, and implementation guidance for each type of remote access allowed on the system.

Part (b) requires that the security control implementation description describe how each type of remote access authorizes the user (or the process acting on behalf of the user) before the remote access is granted to the system. There are automated mechanisms to facilitate the monitoring and control of remote access methods.
### AC-17(b) Customer Responsibilities
*IaaS* - Normally, there is no Customer Responsibility for remote access into an IaaS by the customer. System accounts are not provisioned to customers. If the remote access is sanctioned, the parameters of the Customer Responsibility must be clearly stated.

*PaaS* - System accounts are provisioned to customers based upon the subscription and based upon the platform service. Therefore, remote access MUST be defined for the parameters surrounding the Customer Responsibilities. It is important to clearly define the Customer Responsibilities as these pertain to the PaaS subscription and how remote access methods for accounts are provisioned.

*SaaS* - Depending upon the subscription, system accounts are provisioned to customers to perform basic management functions. This is remote access. The Customer Responsibility for the remote access methodologies must be fully defined for all customer accounts provisioned.
