# AC-22 Publicly Accessible Content
## AC-22 Control Requirement
The organization:

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(a)  Designates individuals authorized to post information onto a publicly accessible information system;

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(b)  Trains authorized individuals to ensure that publicly accessible information does not contain nonpublic &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;information; 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(c)  Reviews the proposed content of information prior to posting onto the publicly accessible information system &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;to ensure that nonpublic information is not included; and

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(d)  Reviews the content on the publicly accessible information system for nonpublic information [FedRAMP &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Assignment: at least quarterly] and removes such information, if discovered.
### AC-2(a) Control Requirement
Describe how the organization designates individuals authorized to post information onto a publicly accessible information system. 
### AC-2(a) Control Objective
The objective/intent of this control is to ensure that government information posted to publicly accessible websites does not contain nonpublic information. Nonpublic information is any information for which the general public is not authorized access in accordance with federal laws, executive orders, directives, policies, regulations, standards, or guidance. Information protected under the Privacy Act, and vendor proprietary information are examples of nonpublic information. 
### AC-2(a) Write the Control
Keep in mind that this control has four parts. Each part is addressing an aspect of the control. There is no value in repeating information that is already provided.

(Noun) Designated, authorized individuals (Verb) post or publish (Noun) “allowable” information.

Part (a) requires a description of the process by which the organization designates specific individuals who are authorized to post information onto a publicly accessible information system.

Because the general public is not authorized access to nonpublic information (e.g., information protected under the Privacy Act and proprietary information), it is incumbent upon the CSP and the Agency to ensure that those designated individuals responsible for posting information to publicly accessible areas do not inadvertently post information that should not be posted. Posting publicly accessible information must be tightly controlled and monitored within the organization.
### AC-2(a) Customer Responsibilities
*IaaS* - Normally, there is no Customer Responsibility for how the IaaS handles their internal personnel management. Customers are not privy to the intricacies of the IaaS and therefore should not have access for posting nonpublic information regarding the IaaS.

*PaaS* - System accounts are provisioned to customers based upon the subscription and based upon the platform service. Therefore, there could be some clearly defined customer requirements between the IaaS and the customers. It is important to clearly define the Customer Responsibilities as these pertain to the PaaS subscription and if any customer personnel would have access to any information that could be posted to a public website.

*SaaS* - Depending upon the subscription, system accounts are provisioned to customers to perform basic management functions. The Customer Responsibility for having personnel that are authorized to post information to publicly accessible websites may have to be defined depending upon the subscription.
### AC-22(b) Control Requirement
Describe how the organization trains authorized individuals to ensure that publicly accessible information does not contain nonpublic information.
### AC-22(b) Control Objective
The objective/intent of this control is to ensure that government information posted to publicly accessible websites does not contain nonpublic information. Another control to ensure this is to have highly trained personnel who review all information before that information is posted to a publicly accessible website. This aspect of the control focuses on training these individuals. This intends that these designated individuals are included in the AT-2 Security Awareness Training of the organization and that they are specifically trained to handle this data and information as per AT-3 Role-Based Security Training.
### AC-22(b) Write the Control
(Noun) organization (Verb) trains (Noun) authorized individuals

Describe how the organization trains authorized individuals to ensure that publicly accessible information does not contain nonpublic information. As an example, this statement may be a simple paragraph that states that based on part (a) the organization hires individuals with a specific background and then trains the individual over a six month period to become accustomed to the jargon of the organization before the individual is allowed to prep press releases, etc.

Or this may be an involved training whereby it ends with the individual having to be read in before they are allowed to be trained for posting data to publicly accessible web sites.

This will align with AT-2 Security Awareness Training of the organization and AT-3 Role-Based Security Training.
### AC-22(b) Customer Responsibilities
*IaaS* - Normally, there is no Customer Responsibility required of the IaaS customers for how the IaaS handles their internal personnel training. Customers are not privy to the intricacies of the IaaS and therefore have no responsibilities regarding the IaaS.

*PaaS* - System accounts are provisioned to customers based upon the subscription and based upon the platform service. Therefore, there could be some clearly defined customer requirements between the IaaS and the customers regarding personnel training for posting material to publicly accessible websites. It is important to clearly define the Customer Responsibilities as these pertain to the PaaS subscription. If any customer personnel would have access to any IaaS information that could be posted to a public website, then personnel may require training.

*SaaS* - Depending upon the subscription, system accounts are provisioned to customers to perform basic management functions. The Customer Responsibility for training personnel that are authorized to post information to publicly accessible websites may have to be defined depending upon the subscription.
### AC-22(c) Control Requirement
Describe how the organization reviews the proposed content of information prior to posting onto the publicly accessible information system to ensure that nonpublic information is not included. 
### AC-22(c) Control Objective
The objective/intent of this control is to ensure that organization reviews the proposed content of information prior to posting onto the publicly accessible information system to ensure that nonpublic information is not included.

Part (a) of this control requires a description of specialized personnel assigned to posting material to publicly accessible websites.

Part (b) of this control requires a description about how these specialized personnel are trained.

This part (c) of this control requires that someone or some process is utilized and also has responsibility to ensure that the proposed content to be posted is reviewed prior to the trained, specialized personnel posting this content to the publicly accessible website(s).

In parts (a) and (b) the focus aligned with AT-2 Security Awareness Training and AT-3 Role-Based Security Training. This control addresses information systems that are controlled by the organization and accessible to the general public, typically without identification or authentication. The posting of information on non-organization information systems is covered by organizational policy. This policy should describe how this review is conducted.
### AC-22(c) Write the Control
(Noun) Process (Verb) review (Noun) publicly accessible information system content

Describe the process by which the organization reviews the proposed content of information prior to posting onto the publicly accessible information system to ensure that nonpublic information is not included.
### AC-22(c) Customer Responsibilities
*IaaS* - There is no Customer Responsibility required of the IaaS customers for how the IaaS handles their internal content regarding the IaaS. Customers are not privy to the intricacies of the IaaS and therefore have no responsibilities regarding the IaaS.

*PaaS* - System accounts are provisioned to customers based upon the subscription and based upon the platform service. Therefore, there could be some clearly defined customer requirements between the IaaS and the customers regarding posting material to publicly accessible websites. It is important to clearly define the Customer Responsibilities as these pertain to the PaaS subscription. If any customer personnel would have access to any IaaS information that could be posted to a public website, then the customer may need to have a clearly defined internal process in place.

*SaaS* - Depending upon the subscription, system accounts are provisioned to customers to perform basic management functions. The Customer Responsibility for posting publicly accessible information may have to be defined depending upon the subscription.
### AC-22(d) Control Requirement
Describe how the organization reviews the content on the publicly accessible information system for nonpublic information **_at least quarterly_** and removes such information, if discovered.
### AC-22(d) Control Objective
The objective/intent of this control is to ensure that organization reviews the content on the publicly accessible information system for nonpublic information at least quarterly and removes such information, if discovered.

Please keep in mind that this control has “parts” that all must come together to form a complete story, as well. So, the entire system set of controls must come together to tell a cohesive story of the system; the controls with in the control families come together to create a cohesive story of the system within the family; and within each control, any sections must be clearly described to tell a cohesive story.

Part (a) of this control requires a description of specialized personnel assigned to posting material to publicly accessible websites.

Part (b) of this control requires a description about how that these specialized personnel are trained.

Part (c) of this control requires that someone or some process is utilized and also has responsibility to ensure that the proposed content to be posted is reviewed prior to the trained, specialized personnel posting this content to the publicly accessible website(s).

This part (d) requires a process by which the publicly accessible content is checked to ensure that there is no nonpublic information evident. Thus, if the specially trained personnel manage to post something and the internal process by which that content is checked had failed, the content is still checked at least quarterly. If something is detected in a quarterly check, it indicates a breakdown in the security control and a root cause analysis should be done.
### AC-22(d) Write the Control
(Noun) Process; (Verb) review and remove; (Adverb) quarterly; (Noun) publicly accessible information system content that is not for public consumption.

Describe the process by which the organization reviews the content on the publicly accessible information system for nonpublic information **_at least quarterly_** and removes such information, if discovered.
### AC-22(d) Customer Responsibilities
*IaaS* - There is no Customer Responsibility required of the IaaS customers for how the IaaS handles their internal content regarding the IaaS. Customers are not privy to the intricacies of the IaaS and therefore have no responsibilities regarding the IaaS.

*PaaS* - System accounts are provisioned to customers based upon the subscription and based upon the platform service. Therefore, there could be some clearly defined customer requirements between the IaaS and the customers regarding posting material to publicly accessible websites and providing a quarterly check process. It is important to clearly define the Customer Responsibilities as these pertain to the PaaS subscription. If any customer personnel would have access to any IaaS information that could be posted to a public website, then the customer may need to have a clearly defined internal process in place to check the content at least quarterly.

*SaaS* - Depending upon the subscription, system accounts are provisioned to customers to perform basic management functions. The Customer Responsibility for checking the content at least quarterly of publicly accessible information may have to be defined depending upon the subscription.
