# CA-7 Continuous Monitoring
## CA-7 Control Requirement
The organization develops a continuous monitoring strategy and implements a continuous monitoring program that includes:

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(a)	Establishment of [*Assignment: organization-defined metrics*] to be monitored;

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(b)	Establishment of [*Assignment: organization-defined frequencies*] for monitoring and [*Assignment: &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;organization-defined frequencies*] for assessments supporting such monitoring;

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(c)	Ongoing security control assessments in accordance with the organizational continuous monitoring strategy;

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(d)	Ongoing security status monitoring of organization-defined metrics in accordance with the organizational &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;continuous monitoring strategy;

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(e)	Correlation and analysis of security-related information generated by assessments and monitoring;

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(f)	Response actions to address results of the analysis of security-related information; and

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;(g)	Reporting the security status of organization and the information system to [*FedRAMP Assignment: to meet &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Federal and FedRAMP requirements*] [*Assignment: organization-defined frequency*].

**CA-7 Additional FedRAMP Requirements and Guidance:** CSPs must provide evidence of closure and remediation of a high vulnerability within the timeframe for standard POA&M updates.
### CA-7(a) Control Requirement
Describe how the organization develops a continuous monitoring strategy and implements a continuous monitoring program that includes establishment of [Assignment: organization-defined metrics] to be monitored.

There is a FedRAMP additional requirement for this control.

**CA-7 Requirement:** Operating System Scans: at least monthly; Database and Web Application Scans: at least monthly; All scans performed by Independent Assessor: at least annually.

There is a FedRAMP additional guidance for this control.

**CA-7 Guidance:** CSPs must provide evidence of closure and remediation of high vulnerabilities within the timeframe for standard POA&M updates. Operating System Scans: at least monthly Database and Web Application Scans: at least monthly. All scans performed by Independent Assessor: at least annually.
### CA-7(a) Control Objective
The objective/ intent of this control is to define the CSP continuous monitoring effort in alignment with the NIST guidelines and FedRAMP requirements. Continuous monitoring must be performed for the entire CSO between each layer and at each level. As such, it is necessary to determine if the CSP requirements for continuous monitoring are stable across each level of each service layer. This means that the requirement must describe how the organization develops a continuous monitoring strategy and implements a continuous monitoring program that includes establishment of organization-defined metrics to be monitored that will align with the FedRAMP requirements as follows:

**_Operating System Scans:_** at least monthly with evidence of closure and remediation of high vulnerabilities within the timeframe for standard POA&M updates which is 30 days for high vulnerabilities (and 90 days for Moderate vulnerabilities. Low vulnerabilities must be addressed by the next annual assessment.)

**_Database and Web Application Scans:_** at least monthly with evidence of closure and remediation of high vulnerabilities within the timeframe for standard POA&M updates which is 30 days for high vulnerabilities (and 90 days for Moderate vulnerabilities. Low vulnerabilities must be addressed by the next annual assessment.)

**_All scans performed by Independent Assessor:_** at least annually with evidence of closure and remediation of high vulnerabilities within the timeframe for standard POA&M updates which is 30 days for high vulnerabilities (and 90 days for Moderate vulnerabilities. Low vulnerabilities must be addressed by the next annual assessment.)

Please determine if the continuous monitoring for each level is accomplished in the same manner. For instance, if the CSO is a SaaS, is the continuous monitoring accomplished in the same manner for both the Application and the Data levels? If it is not, please explain. If the PaaS continuous monitoring is accomplished in a manner that differs, please explain the rationale between each level in the PaaS and then each of the levels in the IaaS.
### CA-7(a) Write the Control
NIST Supplemental guidance for this control states, “The terms continuous and ongoing imply that organizations assess/analyze security controls and information security-related risks at a frequency sufficient to support organizational risk-based decisions.”
In order to appropriately address the continuous monitoring security control implementation detail, this requirement must describe how the organization develops a continuous monitoring strategy and implements a continuous monitoring program that includes establishment of the FedRAMP requirements at each level of the service offering for which the CSP is responsible.

If the CSP differentiates continuous monitoring at each level, this outline should be provided in the security control implementation description to fully illustrate to the reader and to the assessors how each level is handled.

Here is a succinct accounting of the control writing requirement at each level of each layer:
* (a.1) DEVELOP & DEFINE STRATEGY – Has the CSP developed the continuous monitoring strategy that defines appropriate FedRAMP metrics?
* (a.2) INCLUDE METRICS – Has the CSP monitoring strategy included a monitoring strategy for those defined metrics?
* (a.3) IMPLEMENT STRATEGY WITH METRICS – Has the CSP implemented this continuous monitoring program that includes monitoring of organization-defined metrics in accordance with the organizational continuous monitoring strategy?

If the CSP has determined that continuous monitoring is LESS granular and there is one over-arching policy and procedure governing all of continuous monitoring, that can be stated as well but with the detail required.

For each level of the CSO, describe the “developed”, “defined”, “included”, and “implemented” as follows:

(i)	How the CSP had developed and has defined a continuous monitoring strategy that defines metrics to be monitored as per the FedRAMP requirements for scanning Infrastructure/Operating Systems, Web applications, Databases, and allows for the 3PAO to ensure annual scanning and with evidence of closure and remediation of high vulnerabilities within the timeframe for standard POA&M updates which is 30 days for high vulnerabilities (and 90 days for Moderate vulnerabilities. Low vulnerabilities must be addressed by the next annual assessment.)

(ii)	How the CSP has actually included these metrics and implemented this strategy in a provable manner, and does continuous monitoring based upon these defined metrics.
### CA-7(a) Customer Responsibilities
*IaaS* – This responsibility lies with Service Provider System Specific, or possibly Service Provider Hybrid (Service Provider Corporate and Service Provider System Specific) but there is no customer responsibility for the CSP to develop a continuous monitoring strategy and implement a continuous monitoring program for the CSO.

*PaaS* – This responsibility lies with Service Provider System Specific, or possibly Service Provider Hybrid (Service Provider Corporate and Service Provider System Specific) but there is no customer responsibility for the CSP to develop a continuous monitoring strategy and implement a continuous monitoring program for the CSO.

*SaaS* – This responsibility lies with Service Provider System Specific, or possibly Service Provider Hybrid (Service Provider Corporate and Service Provider System Specific) but there is no customer responsibility for the CSP to develop a continuous monitoring strategy and implement a continuous monitoring program for the CSO.
### CA-7(b) Control Requirement
Describe how the organization develops a continuous monitoring strategy and implements a continuous monitoring program that includes establishment of [Assignment: organization-defined frequencies] for monitoring and [Assignment: organization-defined frequencies] for assessments supporting such monitoring.
 
As stated in part (a) of this control, CA-7 Requirement: **Operating System Scans: at least monthly; Database and Web Application Scans: at least monthly; All scans performed by Independent Assessor: at least annually.**

There is FedRAMP additional guidance for this control.

As stated in part (a) of this control, CA-7 Guidance: **CSPs must provide evidence of closure and remediation of high vulnerabilities within the timeframe for standard POA&M updates.**

**Operating System Scans: at least monthly**

**Database and Web Application Scans: at least monthly**

**All scans performed by Independent Assessor: at least annually.**
### CA-7(b) Control Objective
The objective/ intent of this part (b) is focused on the requirements for monitoring the adherence to the continuous monitoring program established in part (a). Each CSP must have mechanisms in place to ensure that the continuous monitoring is being done for the CSO, according to the FedRAMP requirements.

NIST Supplemental guidance states, “The results of continuous monitoring programs generate appropriate risk response actions by organizations. Continuous monitoring programs also allow organizations to maintain the security authorizations of information systems and common controls over time in highly dynamic environments of operation with changing mission/business needs, threats, vulnerabilities, and technologies.”

Therefore, if the monitoring is not being accomplished for adherence to the continuous monitoring program, the organization will not be generating “appropriate risk response actions”.
### CA-7(b) Write the Control
Security control nuances are sometimes “tricky” to recognize. This is why a CSP writing the SSP cannot just say, “Yes we do this” in a security control implementation detail.

In part (a) of this control, we wrote to the following:

(a.1) DEVELOP & DEFINE STRATEGY – Has the CSP _**developed**_ the continuous monitoring strategy that _**defines**_ appropriate FedRAMP metrics?

(a.2) INCLUDE METRICS – Has the CSP monitoring strategy _**included**_ a monitoring strategy for those defined metrics?

(a.3) IMPLEMENT STRATEGY WITH METRICS – Has the CSP _**implemented**_ this continuous monitoring program that includes monitoring of organization-defined metrics in accordance with the organizational continuous monitoring strategy?

There are 3 nouns **(frequencies, strategy, program)** that must be addressed in this part (b) of the control. The requirement is to describe how the **frequencies** in the **strategy** defined in part (a) are part of the continuous monitoring **program.**

The verb is **monitor.**

The **program** must have **specifically defined frequencies for monitoring** and **specifically defined frequencies for monitoring to support monitoring.**

The strategy and the program must be monitored (at the frequencies/metrics defined by FedRAMP OR may be MORE STRINGENT metrics if the CSP has defined more provable, stringent requirements) to ensure that the strategy and the program support the monitoring. Therefore, describe how the continuous monitoring is monitored for effectiveness and efficiency. In other words, if the continuous monitoring strategy and program flow breaks down, how will the CSP know this has happened?
### CA-7(b) Customer Responsibilities
*IaaS* – This responsibility lies with Service Provider System Specific, or possibly Service Provider Hybrid (Service Provider Corporate and Service Provider System Specific) but there is no customer responsibility for the CSP to develop a continuous monitoring strategy and implement a continuous monitoring program for the CSO.

*PaaS* – This responsibility lies with Service Provider System Specific, or possibly Service Provider Hybrid (Service Provider Corporate and Service Provider System Specific) but there is no customer responsibility for the CSP to develop a continuous monitoring strategy and implement a continuous monitoring program for the CSO.

*SaaS* – This responsibility lies with Service Provider System Specific, or possibly Service Provider Hybrid (Service Provider Corporate and Service Provider System Specific) but there is no customer responsibility for the CSP to develop a continuous monitoring strategy and implement a continuous monitoring program for the CSO.
### CA-7(c) Control Requirement
Describe how the organization develops a continuous monitoring strategy and implements a continuous monitoring program that includes ongoing security control assessments in accordance with the organizational continuous monitoring strategy.

As stated in part (a) of this control, CA-7 Requirement: **Operating System Scans: at least monthly; Database and Web Application Scans: at least monthly; All scans performed by Independent Assessor: at least annually.**

There is FedRAMP additional guidance for this control.

As stated in part (a) of this control, CA-7 Guidance: **CSPs must provide evidence of closure and remediation of high vulnerabilities within the timeframe for standard POA&M updates.**

**Operating System Scans: at least monthly**

**Database and Web Application Scans: at least monthly**

**All scans performed by Independent Assessor: at least annually.**
### CA-7(c) Control Objective
The objective/intent of this part (c) is focused on security control assessments and ensuring that these assessments are being accomplished at the FedRAMP defined frequency as part of the continuous monitoring strategy.

Part (a) establishes the continuous monitoring strategy and program. Part (b) establishes the requirements for monitoring the adherence to the continuous monitoring program established in part (a). Each CSP must have mechanisms in place to ensure that the continuous monitoring is being done for the CSO, according to the FedRAMP requirements.

Do not repeat what is already stated in parts (a), and (b). Focus on describing the security control assessments that are accomplished at the FedRAMP-defined frequency which is “annually” or whenever there is a significant change.
### CA-7(c) Write the Control
The requirement for part (c) is that the continuous monitoring strategy must include ongoing security control assessments which are integral in maintaining the security authorization of the system. FedRAMP requires annual security control assessments or more often based upon the significant changes within the system.

Write the requirement for part (c) based upon the continuous monitoring strategy which must include the security control assessment requirement.

Focus on two nouns – **strategy, security control assessments.**

Focus on two verbs – **developed and implemented.**

The control implementation description must be written to establish that the **continuous monitoring strategy (Included in the program) have developed and implemented security control assessments** as an integral part of continuous monitoring. Then write to how this can be substantiated and the assessments are actually being accomplished in the manner prescribed by the strategy and FedRAMP requirements or stricter requirements. There should be a statement regarding the FedRAMP requirements and not just a statement that says, “…we follow FedRAMP requirements”.  Be specific.
### CA-7(c) Customer Responsibilities
*IaaS* – This responsibility lies with Service Provider System Specific, or possibly Service Provider Hybrid (Service Provider Corporate and Service Provider System Specific) but there is no customer responsibility for the CSP to develop a continuous monitoring strategy and implement a continuous monitoring program for the CSO.

*PaaS* – This responsibility lies with Service Provider System Specific, or possibly Service Provider Hybrid (Service Provider Corporate and Service Provider System Specific) but there is no customer responsibility for the CSP to develop a continuous monitoring strategy and implement a continuous monitoring program for the CSO.

*SaaS* – This responsibility lies with Service Provider System Specific, or possibly Service Provider Hybrid (Service Provider Corporate and Service Provider System Specific) but there is no customer responsibility for the CSP to develop a continuous monitoring strategy and implement a continuous monitoring program for the CSO.
### CA-7(d) Control Requirement
Describe how the organization develops a continuous monitoring strategy and implements a continuous monitoring program that includes ongoing security status monitoring of organization-defined metrics in accordance with the organizational continuous monitoring strategy.

As stated in part (a) of this control, CA-7 Requirement: **Operating System Scans: at least monthly; Database and Web Application Scans: at least monthly; All scans performed by Independent Assessor: at least annually.**

There is FedRAMP additional guidance for this control.

As stated in part (a) of this control, CA-7 Guidance: **CSPs must provide evidence of closure and remediation of high vulnerabilities within the timeframe for standard POA&M updates.**

**Operating System Scans: at least monthly**

**Database and Web Application Scans: at least monthly**

**All scans performed by Independent Assessor: at least annually.**
### CA-7(d) Control Objective
The objective/intent of this control is to ensure that another nuance of continuous monitoring is described - **ongoing security status monitoring of organization-defined metrics**. Most organizations now accomplish this ”security status monitoring” through dashboards and near real-time reporting capabilities.

NIST supplemental Guidance states, “...Having access to security-related information on a continuing basis through reports/dashboards gives organizational officials the capability to make more effective and timely risk management decisions, including ongoing security authorization decisions.”
### CA-7(d) Write the Control
Focus on the verb “**security status monitoring**” and the noun “**metrics**” encompassed in this phrase “**security status monitoring of organization-defined metrics**”.

As with any activity, one must first develop the activity. Then once developed, the activity must be executed or implemented.

Describe how the organization had developed the continuous monitoring strategy to include this “security status monitoring of organization-defined metrics”. Then describe how this security status monitoring is implemented or executed within the environment.
### CA-7(d) Customer Responsibilities
*IaaS* – This responsibility lies with Service Provider System Specific, or possibly Service Provider Hybrid (Service Provider Corporate and Service Provider System Specific) but there is no customer responsibility for the CSP to develop a continuous monitoring strategy and implement a continuous monitoring program for the CSO.

*PaaS* – This responsibility lies with Service Provider System Specific, or possibly Service Provider Hybrid (Service Provider Corporate and Service Provider System Specific) but there is no customer responsibility for the CSP to develop a continuous monitoring strategy and implement a continuous monitoring program for the CSO.

*SaaS* – This responsibility lies with Service Provider System Specific, or possibly Service Provider Hybrid (Service Provider Corporate and Service Provider System Specific) but there is no customer responsibility for the CSP to develop a continuous monitoring strategy and implement a continuous monitoring program for the CSO.
### CA-7(e) Control Requirement
Describe how the organization develops a continuous monitoring strategy and implements a continuous monitoring program that includes correlation and analysis of security-related information generated by assessments and monitoring.

As stated in part (a) of this control, CA-7 Requirement: **Operating System Scans: at least monthly; Database and Web Application Scans: at least monthly; All scans performed by Independent Assessor: at least annually.**

There is FedRAMP additional guidance for this control.

As stated in part (a) of this control, CA-7 Guidance: **CSPs must provide evidence of closure and remediation of high vulnerabilities within the timeframe for standard POA&M updates.**

**Operating System Scans: at least monthly**

**Database and Web Application Scans: at least monthly**

**All scans performed by Independent Assessor: at least annually.**
### CA-7(e) Control Objective
The objective/intent of this part (e) of this control is another nuance of continuous monitoring - **correlation and analysis of security-related information generated by assessments and monitoring.**
### CA-7(e) Write the Control
As with any activity, one must first develop the activity. Then once developed, the activity must be executed or implemented.

Focus on two verbs **(correlation and analysis) of (noun) security-related information generated by assessments and monitoring**.

Continuous monitoring strategy and program aspects are not truly usable unless data is correlated and analyzed. This will provide the information that is “specific, measurable, actionable, relevant, and timely”.

Describe how the continuous monitoring assessment and monitoring provide “specific, measurable, actionable, relevant, and timely” data and information through correlation and analysis, which the organization uses to support the risk management program. Describe how the process for correlation and analysis was developed and then how it is implemented.

NIST Supplemental guidance states, “…Automation supports more frequent updates to security authorization packages, hardware/software/firmware inventories, and other system information. Effectiveness is further enhanced when continuous monitoring outputs are formatted to provide information that is specific, measurable, actionable, relevant, and timely. Continuous monitoring activities are scaled in accordance with the security categories of information systems.”
### CA-7(e) Customer Responsibilities
*IaaS* – This responsibility lies with Service Provider System Specific, or possibly Service Provider Hybrid (Service Provider Corporate and Service Provider System Specific) but there is no customer responsibility for the CSP to develop a continuous monitoring strategy and implement a continuous monitoring program for the CSO.

*PaaS* – This responsibility lies with Service Provider System Specific, or possibly Service Provider Hybrid (Service Provider Corporate and Service Provider System Specific) but there is no customer responsibility for the CSP to develop a continuous monitoring strategy and implement a continuous monitoring program for the CSO.

*SaaS* – This responsibility lies with Service Provider System Specific, or possibly Service Provider Hybrid (Service Provider Corporate and Service Provider System Specific) but there is no customer responsibility for the CSP to develop a continuous monitoring strategy and implement a continuous monitoring program for the CSO.
### CA-7(f) Control Requirement
Describe how the organization develops a continuous monitoring strategy and implements a continuous monitoring program that includes response actions to address results of the analysis of security-related information.

As stated in part (a) of this control, CA-7 Requirement: **Operating System Scans: at least monthly; Database and Web Application Scans: at least monthly; All scans performed by Independent Assessor: at least annually.**

There is FedRAMP additional guidance for this control.

As stated in part (a) of this control, CA-7 Guidance: **CSPs must provide evidence of closure and remediation of high vulnerabilities within the timeframe for standard POA&M updates.**

**Operating System Scans: at least monthly**

**Database and Web Application Scans: at least monthly**

**All scans performed by Independent Assessor: at least annually.**
### CA-7(f) Control Objective
The objective/intent of this part (f) of this control is another nuance of continuous monitoring - **response actions to address results of the analysis.**
### CA-7(f) Write the Control
This part (f) of this control requires one to (verb) **describe** (what) **the organizational response actions to the continuous monitoring** for the organization.

Describe how the organization reacts – what are the response actions – of the organization to address the results obtained through (the part (e)) correlation and analysis of this security related information generated by continuous monitoring.

When describing the security control implementation description for this part (f), the writer must ensure that the description is aligned with the information in (at least) the following controls. Please see a brief descriptor relating the controls to this part (f). These descriptors all pertain to the organizational response to the correlation and analysis of the security related information generated. There should be established policies and procedures in place that define the actions required.

**Develop and Implement Response Actions** - As a result of the analysis of the continuous monitoring data:

(i)	CM-3 Configuration Change Control – does it require a configuration change or multiple configuration changes in the system? Are these types of changes (as the result of CA-7 Continuous Monitoring) covered in the organizational Configuration Change Control?

(ii)	CM-4 Security Impact Analysis – must a security impact analysis (SIA) be done to determine the result of the change on the overall system? Does this SIA (as the result of CA-7 Continuous Monitoring) require different parameters for completion of the SIA?

(iii)	PM-6 Information Security Measures of Performance – do the response actions for a CA-7 Continuous Monitoring change affect the organizational security measures of performance? The NIST statement for this control is, “Measures of performance are outcome-based metrics used by an organization to measure the effectiveness or efficiency of the information security program and the security controls employed in support of the program.” As such, the description of the resulting actions described in CA-7(f) would certainly align with PM-6.

(iv)	PM-9 Risk Management Strategy – the response actions defined in CA-7(f) does affect the organizational risk management strategy both positively and negatively. Some regards must be given to this PM-9 as part of the security control implementation description for CA-7(f).

(v)	RA-5 Vulnerability Scanning – the organizational vulnerability scanning management is one of the primary points of concern, since the metrics from the vulnerability scanning are those most heavily relied upon by FedRAMP. Therefore, there must be heavy emphasis placed upon results of the vulnerability scanning as described in CA-7(f).

(vi)	SA-11 Developer Security Testing and Evaluation – this must be included since the results may be directly linked to the developer security testing and evaluation. Does the analysis of the data reveal design flaws? Does the organizational policy and procedures for “…Developmental security testing/evaluation occur(s) at all post-design phases of the system development life cycle”? Further, as per NIST, “ Such testing/evaluation confirms that the required security controls are implemented correctly, operating as intended, enforcing the desired security policy, and meeting established security requirements.”

(vii)	SA-12 Supply Chain Protection – how do vulnerabilities regarding supply chain threats fit in to the organizational flow for CA-7(f) Continuous Monitoring? As per NIST, “Information systems (including system components that compose those systems) need to be protected throughout the system development life cycle (i.e., during design, development, manufacturing, packaging, assembly, distribution, system integration, operations, maintenance, and retirement). Protection of organizational information systems is accomplished through threat awareness, by the identification, management, and reduction of vulnerabilities at each phase of the life cycle and the use of complementary, mutually reinforcing strategies to respond to risk. Organizations consider implementing a standardized process to address supply chain risk with respect to information systems and system components, and to educate the acquisition workforce on threats, risk, and required security controls.” With Cloud Computing Supply Chain Protection is mandatory.

(viii)	SI-2 Flaw Remediation – are there well documented procedures for remediating and mitigating vulnerabilities identified?  FedRAMP is particularly interested in SI-2 based on the emphasis placed on vulnerability scanning on an ongoing manner.

(IX) SI-4 Information System Monitoring – CA-7(f) is integral in the description for SI-4. CA-7 is Continuous Monitoring and so mirrors at least one aspect of overall Information System Monitoring. “**Organizational response actions to the continuous monitoring**” are part of the information system monitoring. Therefore the threads of descriptions for this control should very closely mirror.
### CA-7(f) Customer Responsibilities
*IaaS* – This responsibility lies with Service Provider System Specific, or possibly Service Provider Hybrid (Service Provider Corporate and Service Provider System Specific) but there is no customer responsibility for the CSP to develop a continuous monitoring strategy and implement a continuous monitoring program for the CSO.

*PaaS* – This responsibility lies with Service Provider System Specific, or possibly Service Provider Hybrid (Service Provider Corporate and Service Provider System Specific) but there is no customer responsibility for the CSP to develop a continuous monitoring strategy and implement a continuous monitoring program for the CSO.

*SaaS* – This responsibility lies with Service Provider System Specific, or possibly Service Provider Hybrid (Service Provider Corporate and Service Provider System Specific) but there is no customer responsibility for the CSP to develop a continuous monitoring strategy and implement a continuous monitoring program for the CSO.
### CA-7(g) Control Requirement
Describe how the organization develops a continuous monitoring strategy and implements a continuous monitoring program that includes reporting the security status of organization and the information system to _**meet Federal and FedRAMP requirements**_ [Assignment: organization-defined frequency].

As stated in part (a) of this control, CA-7 Requirement: **Operating System Scans: at least monthly; Database and Web Application Scans: at least monthly; All scans performed by Independent Assessor: at least annually.**

There is FedRAMP additional guidance for this control.

As stated in part (a) of this control, CA-7 Guidance: **CSPs must provide evidence of closure and remediation of high vulnerabilities within the timeframe for standard POA&M updates.**

**Operating System Scans: at least monthly**

**Database and Web Application Scans: at least monthly**

**All scans performed by Independent Assessor: at least annually.**
### CA-7(g) Control Objective
The objective/ intent of this part (g) of this control is another nuance of continuous monitoring and the final nuance of this control which must be addressed - **reporting the security status of organization and the information system to meet Federal and FedRAMP requirements.**
### CA-7(g) Write the Control
This part (g) of this control requires one to (verb) **describe** (what) **the reporting process of the status of the organization and the system to FedRAMP and to meet other federal requirements.**

This is the final nuance for this control. Now that the CSP has the continuous monitoring data and information, how is this reported to FedRAMP and to meet other federal requirements?  FedRAMP requires at least monthly continuous monitoring reporting. Other federal requirements may require monthly reporting as well.

The security control implementation detail for this part(g) is a bit more granular and each part is tested by the independent third party assessor. For each distribution, the writer must address:

a.	To whom (personnel/roles) is this security status disseminated?

b.	How often is this security status disseminated to the specified personnel/roles?

c.	Is this reporting strategy fully covered in the continuous monitoring strategy?

d.	What is the proof that this reporting strategy is implemented and works?
### CA-7(g) Customer Responsibilities
*IaaS* – This responsibility lies with Service Provider System Specific, or possibly Service Provider Hybrid (Service Provider Corporate and Service Provider System Specific) but there is no customer responsibility for the CSP to develop a continuous monitoring strategy and implement a continuous monitoring program for the CSO.

*PaaS* – This responsibility lies with Service Provider System Specific, or possibly Service Provider Hybrid (Service Provider Corporate and Service Provider System Specific) but there is no customer responsibility for the CSP to develop a continuous monitoring strategy and implement a continuous monitoring program for the CSO.

*SaaS* – This responsibility lies with Service Provider System Specific, or possibly Service Provider Hybrid (Service Provider Corporate and Service Provider System Specific) but there is no customer responsibility for the CSP to develop a continuous monitoring strategy and implement a continuous monitoring program for the CSO.
