# IA-2(12) Identification and Authentication (Organization Users) | Acceptance of PIV Credentials
## IA-2(12) Control Requirement
The information system accepts and electronically verifies Personal Identity Verification (PIV) credentials.

FedRAMP-Tailored: Required (Conditional) - Required for privileged users; Conditional for non-privileged users. FedRAMP requires a minimum of multi-factor authentication for all Federal privileged users, if acceptance of PIV credentials is not supported.  The implementation status and details of how this control is implemented must be clearly defined by the CSP.
## IA-2(12) Control Objective
The objective/ intent of this control is to ensure that the Cloud Service Offering (CSO) has the capability for the customer/user to use the PIV and CAC credentials to authenticate to the CSO.
Many acronyms are extended by CSOs to prove compliance with IA-2(12). This control must specifically address items such as Federated Identity Management, and security token service. If Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) is used for compliance, the secure configuration must be addressed.
## IA-2(12) Write the Control
Provide a description regarding how the Cloud Service Offering (CSO) (verb) accepts and (verb) electronically verifies Personal Identity Verification (PIV) credentials, Common Access Card (CAC), i.e., the DoD technical implementation of PIV/FIPS 201/HSPD-12.

Both verbs (accept and electronically verifies) must be described.

Additionally for FedRAMP Tailored only. This is a requirement for FedRAMP Tailored for privileged users but is conditional for non-privileged users. FedRAMP requires a minimum of multi-factor authentication for all Federal privileged users, if acceptance of PIV credentials is not supported. The implementation status and details of how this control is implemented must be clearly defined by the CSP.

This control must be implemented. It is simply not acceptable to state that the CSO utilizes SSO or FID or SAML. Details must be provided.
## IA-2(12) Customer Responsibility
*IaaS* – Service Provider System Specific or Shared (Service Provider and Customer Responsibility)

*PaaS* – Shared (Service Provider and Customer Responsibility), Inherited

*SaaS* – Shared (Service Provider and Customer Responsibility), Inherited
