# IA-5(11) Identification and Authentication (Organization Users) | Hardware Token-Based Authentication
## IA-5(11) Control Requirement
Describe how the information system, for hardware token-based authentication, employs mechanisms that satisfy [Assignment: organization-defined token quality requirements].

For FedRAMP Tailored, “For Federal privileged users - Required (Conditional) - Required for privileged users; Conditional for all non-privileged users.”
## IA-5(11) Control Objective
The objective/ intent of this control is to describe how this system, for hardware token-based authentication, employs mechanisms that satisfy organization-defined token quality requirements. For FedRAMP, the control must align with IA-2(1) which prescribes multifactor authentication for network access to privileged accounts. The control must align with IA-2(12) and allow for both PIV (PIV-I) and DoD CAC authentication requirements. (For FedRAMP Tailored only, this only applies to privileged users and non-privileged users are conditional.) Now IA-5(11) requires hardware token-based authentication.
## IA-5(11) Write the Control
This control is applicable to all Cloud Service Offerings (CSOs).

Since this control must align with AI-2(12) in which the requirement extends to the Common Access Card (CAC), i.e., the DoD technical implementation of PIV/FIPS 201/HSPD-12, FedRAMP requires CAC/PIV (PIV-I) authentication.

For FedRAMP Tailored, “For Federal privileged users - Required (Conditional) - Required for privileged users; Conditional for all non-privileged users.

Therefore, this requirement must fully explain how the CSO defines and then implements the hardware token quality requirements that are satisfied as per FedRAMP requirements. Options other than CAC/PIV (PIV-I) authentication are offered as options in NIST SP 800-63B under AAL3.
## IA-5(11) Customer Responsibility
*IaaS* – Service Provider System Specific or Shared (Service Provider and Customer Responsibility)

*PaaS* – Shared (Service Provider and Customer Responsibility), Inherited

*SaaS* – Shared (Service Provider and Customer Responsibility), Inherited
