# IA-8(2) Identification and Authentication (Non-Organization Users) | Acceptance of Third-Party Credentials
## IA-8(2) Control Requirement
Describe how the information system: accepts only FICAM-approved third-party credentials.
## IA-8(2) Control objective
The objective/ intent of this control is to have the CSP provide a description that assures compliance with the Federal Identity, Credential, and Access Management (FICAM) Trust Framework Solutions initiative.
## IA-8(2) Write the Control
(Verb) Describe how the (noun) system (verb) accepts only (noun) FICAM-approved third-party credentials.

Though this control appears to be relatively simple to describe, the control writer must consider all data flows and network access points throughout the entire system and carefully consider how the information system accepts only FICAM-approved third-party credentials.

This control requires a description of compliance with FICAM-approved third party credentials products at each level of each service layer for which the CSP is responsible. The description must include references to FICAM compliance with all the Logical Access Controls (LACS) and the Physical Access Controls (PACS). The FICAM-approved third party credentials product should include server-based certificates within the system, as required.

The 3PAO must test all access points and include testing of server based certificates to ensure FICAM compliance for this control.
## IA-8(2) Customer Responsibility
*IaaS* - Service Provider System Specific

*PaaS* - Provided by Customer (Customer System Specific); or Shared (Service Provider and Customer Responsibility), Inherited. The customers may be responsible for accepting and electronically verifying FICAM-approved third-party credentials.

*SaaS* - Provided by Customer (Customer System Specific); or Shared (Service Provider and Customer Responsibility), Inherited. The customers may be responsible for accepting and electronically verifying FICAM-approved third-party credentials.
