# IA-8(1) Identification and Authentication (Non-Organization Users) | Acceptance of PIV Credentials from Other Agencies
## IA-8(1) Control Requirement
Describe how the information system:
•	accepts Personal Identity Verification (PIV) credentials from other federal agencies; and
•	electronically verifies Personal Identity Verification (PIV) credentials from other federal agencies.

FedRAMP Tailored - Required (Conditional) - Required for privileged users; Conditional for non-privileged users. FedRAMP requires a minimum of multi-factor authentication for all Federal privileged users, if acceptance of PIV credentials is not supported. The implementation status and details of how this control is implemented must be clearly defined by the CSP.
## IA-8(1) Control Objective
The objective/ intent of this control is to determine if the CSO can support the PIV (PIV-I)/CAC authentication mechanism for all Agencies. This control aligns with IA-2(12) that adds the CAC and then IA-5(11) for hardware token-based authentication if PIV (PIV-I)/CAC authentication is not supported. This hardware-based token requirement must align with NIST SP 800-63B Authentication Assurance Level 3 (AAL3), dated June 2017.

For FedRAMP Tailored this control is required for privileged users and is a conditional requirement for non-privileged users. FedRAMP requires a minimum of multi-factor authentication for all Federal privileged users, if acceptance of PIV credentials is not supported. The implementation status and details of how this control is implemented must be clearly defined by the CSP.
## IA-8(1) Write the Control
This control is always applicable in some way, to the CSO.

Describe how this CSO (verb) accepts and (verb) electronically verifies (noun) PIV (PIV-I) and CAC authentication credentials from all Agencies for PACs and LACS.
## IA-8(1) Customer Responsibility
*IaaS* - Service Provider System Specific or Shared (Service Provider and Customer Responsibility)

*PaaS* - Shared (Service Provider and Customer Responsibility), Inherited

*SaaS* - Shared (Service Provider and Customer Responsibility), Inherited
