# SC-12 Cryptographic Key Establishment & Management
## SC-12 Control Requirement
The organization establishes and manages cryptographic keys for required cryptography employed within the information system in accordance with [Assignment: organization-defined requirements for key generation, distribution, storage, access, and destruction].
## SC-12 Control Objective
The objective/ intent of this control is to ensure that that the CSP has a well-defined process and procedure in place to establish and manage cryptographic keys for all cryptography employed within the system. The security control implementation detail is not a simple one sentence detail. The process and procedures must include (i) key generation, (ii) distribution, (iii) storage, (iv) access, and (v) destruction.

Cryptographic key management and establishment can be performed using manual procedures or automated mechanisms with supporting manual procedures.

Organizations can leverage encryption throughout the organization effectively by developing an encryption program. Many CSPs do have encryption programs. This encryption program should be part of an overall risk management strategy. This comprehensive approach must consider what data sets should be encrypted, and how key management will work to generate greater efficiency and effectiveness within the organization.

Prior to deployment of the organization-wide encryption program, a written policy should be developed, supported by management and communicated to end-users, including business partners and third parties (including any cloud providers) that handle sensitive organizational data. If business partners and other Cloud Service Providers (CSPs) cannot meet the organizational encryption policies, they do not get access to the data. Otherwise, the CSP risks a compliance problem and requires consequences for noncompliance.

There are three data states that must be encrypted: (i) data at rest; (ii) data in transit; and (iii) data in use.

The encryption program for the organization should mention each level for each service layer for which the CSP is responsible.

_Software as a Service (SaaS)_
  * Application level
  * Data level

_Platform as a Service (PaaS)_
  * Runtime systems
  * Middleware
  * Databases
  * Operating Systems

_Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)_
  * Virtualization
  * Servers
  * Storage
  * Networking
  * Datacenters
## SC-12 Write the Control
When writing this control, the requirement is to (verb) describe the (noun) requirements for cryptographic key:
  *	generation
  *	distribution
  *	storage
  *	access
  *	destruction

This must be done for each instance in each level for each service layer for which the CSP is responsible, as appropriate.
## SC-12 Customer Responsibility
*IaaS* - Service Provider System Specific. There is no Customer Responsibility.

*PaaS* - Service Provider System Specific. There is no Customer Responsibility.

*SaaS* - Service Provider System Specific. There is no Customer Responsibility.
