# SC-13 Use of Cryptography
## SC-13 Control Requirement
Describe how the information system implements [Assignment: organization-defined cryptographic uses and type of cryptography required for each use] in accordance with applicable federal laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies, regulations, and standards.
## SC-13 Control Objective
The objective/ intent of this control is to ensure that the CSP has implemented the FedRAMP requirements of FIPS 140-2-validated or NSA-approved cryptography for all instances of cryptography within the system. As the Supplemental Guidance for this control states,

“Cryptography can be employed to support a variety of security solutions including, for example, the protection of classified and Controlled Unclassified Information, the provision of digital signatures, and the enforcement of information separation when authorized individuals have the necessary clearances for such information but lack the necessary formal access approvals. Cryptography can also be used to support random number generation and hash generation.”

As per the CSP cryptographic program for the system that is described in SC-12, the required cryptography is for all levels of all service layers for which the CSP is responsible. Note that this control names specific areas where cryptography is applied within a system that many times are taken for granted or missed.

Protection of classified and Controlled Unclassified Information – This includes cryptography for data at rest, data in transit, and data in use

The provision of digital signatures – A digital signature (not to be confused with a digital certificate) is a mathematical technique used to validate the authenticity and integrity of a message, software, or digital document. (A digital certificate is an electronic "passport" that allows a person, computer or organization to exchange information securely over the Internet using the public key infrastructure (PKI). A digital certificate may also be referred to as a public key certificate.)

The enforcement of information separation – (Related to AC-4.) When information is transmitted between separate components of the system, the data should be protected from modification, loss, and disclosure.

Support random number generation and hash generation – This is required for SSL/TLS authentication sessions and setting up secure communications between a client and a server, for instance. The SSL/TLS session is wrapped in a secured hash that is specific to that server. An SSL/TLS certificate for a server will have the name of a server, the name of a trusted third party that issued the certificate and additional cryptographic information that makes any tampering easy to detect. The protection is required for the cryptographic information (random number generator or hash function).

_Software as a Service (SaaS)_
  * Application level
  * Data level

_Platform as a Service (PaaS)_
  * Runtime systems
  * Middleware
  * Databases
  * Operating Systems

_Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)_
  * Virtualization
  * Servers
  * Storage
  * Networking
  * Datacenters
## SC-13 Write the Control
(Verb) Describe how the information system implements the FedRAMP requirements of FIPS 140-2-validated or NSA-approved cryptography, for (noun) all instances of cryptography within the system, in accordance with applicable federal laws, Executive Orders, directives, policies, regulations, and standards.

FedRAMP Tailored baseline states that this control is conditional but if it is implemented, the level of detail must exist as to how the CSO meets the control, or how it does not meet the control.

SC-12 lists all cryptography utilized within the CSO. There is a column in the spreadsheet provided with SC-12 to list the CMVP validation number or the NSA Approval. Additionally, below there is a list of some areas that cryptography is missed or taken for granted. The need may exist to revise SC-12 to ensure that all cryptography is listed.
## SC-13 Customer Responsibility
*IaaS* - Service Provider System Specific. There is no Customer Responsibility.

*PaaS* - Service Provider System Specific. There is no Customer Responsibility.

*SaaS* - Service Provider System Specific. There is no Customer Responsibility.
